utils/endpoint_benchmark/README.md, before:


# Benchmark Tool 

## Description 

This command-line tool is an easy and fast way to benchmark the endpoints of the backend.  The main idea is to use plug-ins that are defining the benchmark.  The default Plugin for the moment is the `wrk` benchmark. We can define any time new Plugins (custom benchmarks) in `plugins.py` and run them with the tool. 

## Basic Usage

```python benchmark.py -ep storage -t 20 -p wrk```

This runs the wrk benchmark for 20 seconds on the storage endpoint.

```
......................................................................
Run WrkPlugin:

Run workload tpch_0.1:

Running 20s test @ http://0.0.0.0:8000/monitor/storage
  1 threads and 1 connections
  Thread Stats   Avg      Stdev     Max   +/- Stdev
    Latency     0.00us    0.00us   0.00us    -nan%
    Req/Sec     0.00      0.00     0.00    100.00%
  8 requests in 20.05s, 660.53KB read
  Socket errors: connect 0, read 0, write 0, timeout 8
Requests/sec:      0.40
Transfer/sec:     32.95KB
```

If we are running: 

```
python benchmark.py
```

All default values are used. That means we are running the wrk benchmark on two databases, on all endpoints of the backend (for one second), while executing the `tpch_0.1` workload. 

The command `python benchmark.py --show enpoints` will display all available endpoints: 

```
Endpoints:
-> endpoints_monitor: ['throughput', 'latency', 'queue_length', 'failed_tasks', 'system', 'chunks', 'storage', 'krueger_data']
-> endpoints_control: ['database', 'data']
```

The command `python benchmark.py --show all` will display all information needed: 

```
Endpoints:
-> endpoints_monitor: ['throughput', 'latency', 'queue_length', 'failed_tasks', 'system', 'chunks', 'storage', 'krueger_data']
-> endpoints_control: ['database', 'data']
Databases: ['db1', 'db2']
Workloads: ['tpch_0.1', 'tpch_1', 'tpcds_1', 'job']
```

## Command Line Options

```
optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --endpoint  [ ...], -ep  [ ...]
                        endpoints to run the benchmark on (default: ['all'])
  --show  [ ...]        show available endpoints, workloads, databases, plug-ins and exit (default: None)
  --database  [ ...], -db  [ ...]
                        databases to use in benchmark (default: ['all'])
  --workload  [ ...], -w  [ ...]
                        workloads to run on databases (default: ['tpch_0.1'])
  --time [], -t []      duration of the benchmark per endpoint in seconds (default: 1)
  --run [], -r []       number of runs (default: 1)
  --url [], -u []       back-end URL (default: ['http://0.0.0.0:8000'])
  --worker_number [], -wn []
                        number of workers per database (default: 10)
  --workload_frequence , -wf
                        frequency of workload (default: 200)
  --plugin  [ ...], -p  [ ...]
                        benchmark plug-ins to use (default: ['wrk'])
```

## Setup

### .env
Please add in your `.env` (in the utils module) the access values for your two default databases `db1` and `db2`.

```
# Set this to the databases you want to run the endpoint benchmark with
DB1_HOST="*" 
DB1_PORT="*" 
DB1_PASSWORD="*"
DB1_TYPE="*"

DB2_HOST="*" 
DB2_PORT="*" 
DB2_PASSWORD="*"
DB2_TYPE="*"
```

### WRK

To be able to use the wrk plugin you muss install the wrk benchmark tool.

#### On Linux 

https://github.com/wg/wrk/wiki/Installing-wrk-on-Linux

#### On Mac 

https://github.com/wg/wrk/wiki/Installing-wrk-on-OS-X

## Add a Plugin 

If you want to add your own plugin you can do so by creating a class for the plugin-in in `plugins.py`. You just need to implement the `run_benchmark` function. The plug-in is getting a configuration in the form of a dictionary.

```python
class YourPlugin:

    def __init__(self, configuration):
        self._configuration = configuration
        self._backend_url = configuration["backend_url"]
        
        
    #...
    
    def run_benchmark(self):
        # do some stuff
```

A configuration can look as following : 

```python
{
  'end_points': {
    'endpoints_monitor': ['throughput', 'latency', 'queue_length', 'failed_tasks', 'system', 'chunks', 'storage', 'krueger_data'],
    'endpoints_control': ['database', 'data']
  },
  'databases': ['db1', 'db2'],
  'workloads': ['tpch_0.1'],
  'time': 1,
  'runs': 1,
  'backend_url': 'http://0.0.0.0:8000',
  'number_workers': 10,
  'workload_frequence': 200,
  'plugins': ['wrk']
}
```
Please add the name of the plug-in in `DevTools.endpoint_benchmark.argument_parser.ArgumentValidation.__init__` to 

```python
self._plugins = ["wrk", "yourPlugin"]
```
So you can use your plugin in the following way:

```
python benchmark.py --plugin yourPlugin
```

Moreover you need to add our plugin in `DevTools.endpoint_benchmark.plugins.PluginManager` like the `wrk` plug-in:

```python
    def __init__(self):
        """Initialize PluginManager."""
        self.plugins = {"wrk": self._get_wrk_plugin,
                        "yourPlugin": self._get_your_plugin}

    def _get_wrk_plugin(self, configuration):
        return WrkPlugin(configuration)
        
    def _get_your_plugin(self, configuration):
        return YourPlugin(configuration)
```

Commit message:

U/add display monitor plugin (#309)
* First draft Display monitor plugin

* Remove show argument

* Update Readme

* Rename and add chack of control endpoints

* Add missing endpoints

Co-authored-by: Fabian Heseding <39628987+fabianhe@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: caterinamandel98 <38725641+caterinamandel98@users.noreply.github.com>

utils/endpoint_benchmark/README.md, after:


# Benchmark Tool 

## Description 

This command-line tool is an easy and fast way to benchmark the endpoints of the backend.  The main idea is to use plug-ins that are defining the benchmark.  The default Plugin for the moment is the `wrk` benchmark. We can define any time new Plugins (custom benchmarks) in `plugins.py` and run them with the tool. 

## Basic Usage

```python benchmark.py -ep storage -t 20 -p wrk```

This runs the wrk benchmark for 20 seconds on the storage endpoint.

```
......................................................................
Run WrkPlugin:

Run workload tpch_0.1:

Running 20s test @ http://0.0.0.0:8000/monitor/storage
  1 threads and 1 connections
  Thread Stats   Avg      Stdev     Max   +/- Stdev
    Latency     0.00us    0.00us   0.00us    -nan%
    Req/Sec     0.00      0.00     0.00    100.00%
  8 requests in 20.05s, 660.53KB read
  Socket errors: connect 0, read 0, write 0, timeout 8
Requests/sec:      0.40
Transfer/sec:     32.95KB
```

If we are running: 

```
python benchmark.py
```

All default values are used. That means we are running the wrk benchmark on two databases, on all endpoints of the backend (for one second), while executing the `tpch_0.1` workload. 



## Command Line Options

```
optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --endpoint  [ ...], -ep  [ ...]
                        endpoints to run the benchmark on. Allowed values are throughput, latency, queue_length, failed_tasks, system, chunks, storage,
                        krueger_data, all (default: ['all'])
  --database  [ ...], -db  [ ...]
                        databases to use in benchmark. Allowed values are db1, db2, all (default: ['all'])
  --workload  [ ...], -w  [ ...]
                        workloads to run on databases. . Allowed values are tpch_0.1, tpch_1, tpcds_1, job, no-ops (default: ['tpch_0.1'])
  --time [], -t []      duration of the benchmark per endpoint in seconds (default: 1)
  --run [], -r []       number of runs (default: 1)
  --url [], -u []       back-end URL (default: ['http://127.0.0.1:8000'])
  --worker_number [], -wn []
                        number of workers per database (default: 10)
  --workload_frequence [], -wf []
                        frequency of workload (default: 200)
  --plugin  [ ...], -p  [ ...]
                        benchmark plug-ins to use. Allowed values are wrk, displayMonitor (default: ['wrk'])
  --start_components [], -sc []
                        start components as subprocesses [Y/N] (default: Y)
```

## Setup

### .env
Please add in your `.env` (in the utils module) the access values for your two default databases `db1` and `db2`.

```
# Set this to the databases you want to run the endpoint benchmark with
DB1_HOST="*" 
DB1_PORT="*" 
DB1_PASSWORD="*"
DB1_TYPE="*"

DB2_HOST="*" 
DB2_PORT="*" 
DB2_PASSWORD="*"
DB2_TYPE="*"
```

### WRK

To be able to use the wrk plugin you muss install the wrk benchmark tool.

#### On Linux 

https://github.com/wg/wrk/wiki/Installing-wrk-on-Linux

#### On Mac 

https://github.com/wg/wrk/wiki/Installing-wrk-on-OS-X

## Add a Plugin 

If you want to add your own plugin you can do so by creating a class for the plugin-in in `plugins.py`. You just need to implement the `run_benchmark` function. The plug-in is getting a configuration in the form of a dictionary.

```python
class YourPlugin:

    def __init__(self, configuration):
        self._configuration = configuration
        self._backend_url = configuration["backend_url"]
        
        
    #...
    
    def run_benchmark(self):
        # do some stuff
```

A configuration can look as following : 

```python
{
  'end_points': {
    'endpoints_monitor': ['throughput', 'latency', 'queue_length', 'failed_tasks', 'system', 'chunks', 'storage', 'krueger_data'],
    'endpoints_control': ['database', 'data']
  },
  'databases': ['db1', 'db2'],
  'workloads': ['tpch_0.1'],
  'time': 1,
  'runs': 1,
  'backend_url': 'http://0.0.0.0:8000',
  'number_workers': 10,
  'workload_frequence': 200,
  'plugins': ['wrk']
}
```
Please add the name of the plug-in in `DevTools.endpoint_benchmark.argument_parser.ArgumentValidation.__init__` to 

```python
self._plugins = ["wrk", "yourPlugin"]
```
So you can use your plugin in the following way:

```
python benchmark.py --plugin yourPlugin
```

Moreover you need to add our plugin in `DevTools.endpoint_benchmark.plugins.PluginManager` like the `wrk` plug-in:

```python
    def __init__(self):
        """Initialize PluginManager."""
        self.plugins = {"wrk": self._get_wrk_plugin,
                        "yourPlugin": self._get_your_plugin}

    def _get_wrk_plugin(self, configuration):
        return WrkPlugin(configuration)
        
    def _get_your_plugin(self, configuration):
        return YourPlugin(configuration)
```
