utils/docker_developent_enviroment/README.md, before:

# Using docker development environment 

I you are unfamiliar with docker I recommend following guide to get you on track. 

https://training.play-with-docker.com/dev-stage1/

## Install docker 

### Ubuntu 

https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

### Mac 

https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/

## Main Idea 

The idea is to mount our working directory and work inside the ubuntu system of the container. So we will git pull and commit from inside the container.

There are three docker images to

* `cockpit_minimal` it just gives us a simple environment with all packages for python and javascript
* `cockpit_normal` in addition to minimal an influxdb is installed .
* `cockpit_complete` in addition to normal two hyrise databases are ready to go.

## Images

It is important to mention that the hyrise server in the image  is compiled for the specific architecture. So it is possible that it wound run on your system. In that case you need to build your own image with the dockerfile. 

### Build images

#### Ubuntu intel
(To get the image just type the following command in your terminal:  

* `docker pull dubrawski/cockpit_minimal_intel_xeon:1.0`
* `docker pull dubrawski/cockpit_normal_intel_xeon:1.0`
* `docker pull dubrawski/cockpit_complete_intel_xeon:1.0`

#### Mac osx
Coming in the future.
For the moment you need to build it on the mac
 
### Build you own image 

1. navigate in the folder for the image you want to build (for example `cd cockpit/utils/docker_developer_enviroment/normal`)
2. run `docker image build --tag cockpit_normal .`

The build process for the `minimal` and `normal` image can take up to 5 to 10 minutes. The build time for the `complete` image up to one hour (hyrise compile time).

After you build an image you can always use it to start an container. 

### Starting a container 

1. Clone the cockpit
2. Set up .env 
3. Start the container with: 
	```
	docker container run --mount type=bind,source=/path/to/cloned/Cockpit,destination=/cockpit --name cockpit_container  --interactive --tty -p 8000:8000 dubrawski/cockpit_complete bash
	```
	*I would recommend using setting up an alias for this command.*
	 
	* `--interactive` means you are starting an interactive shell. When you are closing this shell you are closing the container. You could also use `--detach` instead than the container would run in the background. Then you need to call `docker stop cockpit_container` at the end. 
	* `-p 8000:8000` is mapping the port number of the frontend. 

4. You should now be in the container. Now you need to navigate to the Cockpit with `cd cockpit`.
5. Crate a Pipenv shell with `pipenv shell`
6. Install all packages `pipenv sync --dev`

If you don't want to do step 6 every time you are starting a container you can mount the packages as well with: 

`--mount type=bind,source=path/to/your/mount/folder/Pipenv_packages,destination=/.local/share/virtualenvs/`

You can open a sub shell via: 
`docker exec -it cockpit_container` 

You can use git inside the container and you text editor on the mounted volume (/path/to/cloned/Cockpit)
If you want to use your git conficts from your local machine: 

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52819584/copying-local-git-config-into-docker-container

## Boot Tool

Inside the container you can use the boot tool in: 
`cockpit/utils/docker_developent_enviroment`   

The basic usage is: 

```
optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  -s          start Hyrise server (default: False)
  -i          start influx (default: False)
  -b          start backend (default: False)
  -all        start backend (default: False)
```

Commit message:

Rmove normal and complete dockerfile and adjust boot script

utils/docker_developent_enviroment/README.md, after:

# Using docker development environment 

I you are unfamiliar with docker I recommend following guide to get you on track. 

https://training.play-with-docker.com/dev-stage1/

## Install docker 

### Ubuntu 

https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

### Mac 

https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/

## Main Idea 

The idea is to mount our working directory and work inside the ubuntu system of the container. So we will git pull and commit from inside the container.

## Image


### Build images

#### Ubuntu intel
(To get the image just type the following command in your terminal:  

* `docker pull dubrawski/cockpit_minimal_intel_xeon:1.0`

#### Mac osx
Coming in the future.
For the moment you need to build it on the mac
 
### Build you own image 

1. navigate in the folder for the image you want to build (for example `cd cockpit/utils/docker_developer_enviroment`)
2. run `docker image build --tag docker_cockpit .`

After you build an image you can always use it to start an container. 

### Starting a container 

1. Clone the cockpit
2. Set up .env 
3. Start the container with: 
	```
	docker container run --mount type=bind,source=/path/to/cloned/Cockpit,destination=/cockpit --name cockpit_container  --interactive --tty -p 8000:8000 dubrawski/cockpit_minimal_intel_xeon:1.0 bash
	```
	*I would recommend using setting up an alias for this command.*
	 
	* `--interactive` means you are starting an interactive shell. When you are closing this shell you are closing the container. You could also use `--detach` instead than the container would run in the background. Then you need to call `docker stop cockpit_container` at the end. 
	* `-p 8000:8000` is mapping the port number of the frontend. 

4. You should now be in the container. Now you need to navigate to the Cockpit with `cd cockpit`.
5. Crate a Pipenv shell with `pipenv shell`
6. Install all packages `pipenv sync --dev`

If you don't want to do step 6 every time you are starting a container you can mount the packages as well with: 

`--mount type=bind,source=path/to/your/mount/folder/Pipenv_packages,destination=/.local/share/virtualenvs/`

You can open a sub shell via: 
`docker exec -it cockpit_container` 

You can use git inside the container and you text editor on the mounted volume (/path/to/cloned/Cockpit)
If you want to use your git conficts from your local machine: 

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52819584/copying-local-git-config-into-docker-container

## Boot Tool

Inside the container you can use the boot tool in: 
`cockpit/utils/docker_developent_enviroment`   

The basic usage is: 

```
    python boot_tool.py
```

It will start the backend components.
